---
title: Worldwide Hearing Industry Research Consortium Announced
date: 2012-09-04 12:00
---

$300,000 Grant to be Awarded to Winning Proposal on Interaction of Cognition
and Hearing Aids

The hearing industry’s largest manufacturers have collaborated to create the
Hearing Industry Research Consortium (IRC) to develop and direct a
non-competitive, mutually agreed upon research agenda benefitting the hearing
aid industry, its customers and end users.

As its first act, the IRC is requesting proposals for a research project on the
interaction of cognition and hearing aids. The $300,000 grant was announced at
the International Hearing Aid Research Conference in Lake Tahoe, Calif., and is
open to research labs around the world.

The IRC board is comprised of the heads of research from the top hearing aid
manufacturers in the world including GN ReSound’s Andrew Dittberner; Oticon’s
Graham Naylor; Phonak’s Stefan Launer; Siemens’ Joel Beilin; Starkey Hearing
Technologies’ Brent Edwards; and Widex’ Lars Sunesen.

Applications are available on the IRC web site at www.hearingirc.com . The
deadline for proposals is November 1, 2012, and decisions will be announced by
December 31, 2012.

About the Hearing Industry Research Consortium The Hearing Industry Research
Consortium (IRC) is made up of the heads of research from the top hearing aid
manufactures in the world, which include GN ReSound, Oticon, Phonak, Siemens,
Starkey Hearing Technologies and Widex. The IRC was created to have a
non-competitive, mutually agreed upon research agenda benefitting the hearing
aid industry, its customers and end users. For more information about the
Hearing Industry Research Consortium, visit www.hearingirc.com.
